Welcome back everyone.
It's now time to begin data pre processing and we'll start off by trying to figure out how to work with
the missing data in our dataset.
This probably the hardest part of the entire project because it's more nuanced and there's no 100 percent
correct answer.
Remember our options are to either keep the missing data drop the missing data or fill in the missing
data.
Let's review what data is missing and how we can work with it.
All right.
So to be in Section 2 on data pre processing we have a couple of goals and right now we're going to
focus on either removing or filling in any missing data.
And this very first cell actually isn't a task it's just the head of the data frame that we currently
have.
So we'll move on to missing data and we want to ask ourselves what is the length of the entire data
frame.
And that's easy to answer it just by saying LPN on the data frame you can also use DFT info and it looks
like we have about about four hundred thousand points a little less than that.
So next we want to create a series that displays the total count of missing values per column and we've
shown you how to do this before you simply say DLF dot is null.
And recall that returns back a data frame that looks like this and we can take the sum of this across
the rows here and then we get the actual columns and their numbers for how many points are missing.
So it looks like we have around twenty two thousand missing for EMP title which will later find that
as employment title.
Also employment length is missing quite a bit.
Then we have this titles missing just a few missing on this particular feature we're missing quite a
bit on Mort Ach so we'll have to see what that is and then where you're also missing a couple on any
public record of bankruptcies.
OK so what would be interesting is to get these numbers in terms of percentage of this total data frame
just to see how significant of a problem is it.
So I want to see it in this fashion of I'm missing five point seven percent of all employment titles
or I'm missing almost 10 percent of these mortgage accounts.
So let's go ahead and figure out how to do that.
One way to do it is to get our previous series recall that is DFS No not some.
And then if I simply divide every item there by the length of the data frame I can then multiply that
by 100 to get a percentage and that is how we can get this exact same result.
So again it's 100 times DFS No.
That sum divided by the length the data frame.
So it looks like the ones we're gonna have to really focus on is this mortgage accounts because we can't
just really drop 10 percent of our data.
But some of these are so minor such as this one and this one these are less than actually less than
half a percent of our data.
So it should be fine to drop some of these.
So we're gonna do is we're gonna start from the top to the bottom we'll start off with this employment
title and employment length.
So let's scroll down here.
So when I first examine this employment title and employment length to see whether it will be OK to
drop them so we can use ft underscore info.
That's the feature information function that we set up for you at the beginning that simply reports
back what these are.
So the feature information on the employment title that's simply the job title supplied by the bar when
applying for the loan and the employment length one we actually have it free here.
It's the employment length in years.
So possible values are between 0 and 10 where 0 means less than one year and 10 means 10 or more years.
So next question that we want to start thinking about is well how many unique employment job titles
are there because when you start thinking Are we just going to drop employment title or fill it in with
something.
So it might be adjusting to actually explore the employment title so we'll say def employment title
and let's just see how many unique employment titles there are.
So after running that you should see there's a ton of unique employment titles and factors.
One hundred seventy three thousand unique employment titles recall that are dataset itself was around
400000.
So it looks like there's almost half of that are all unique employment titles.
And then we can kind of check it out with the value counts to explore that further which I would recommend
although you don't have to do this for the project.
We can simply run this and we can see here that we have some teachers managers registered nurses et
cetera and we have a ton of titles that are actually just unique to that particular person.
So realistically there are just way too many titles to convert this to some sort of dummy variable feature
we can't add in an extra hundred and seventy three thousand columns of billions.
Now what you could do is maybe with extensive feature engineering start categorizing these maybe as
high income jobs versus medium income jobs but again you have to make a lot of assumptions and you have
to figure out how to do this and map it to over one hundred seventy three thousand different job titles.
So this is just so many unique job titles that it's probably not going to be very informative because
half of all people have some unique job title.
So instead of we're going to do is we'll simply remove that title because it's not realistically going
to be useful to us in any manner.
So we'll say DCF is going to be equal to the FDA drop the employment title and we do this a lot.
Access is equal to 1 and be careful with these dropping statements because you can only run them once
if you try running them more than once.
You'll end up getting error because you already remove that feature.
OK next we want to create account plot of the employment link feature column.
So again we want to try to sort the order of the values so one way to do that is to try to grab a list
here in order to actually get that order so we can say just as before the F employment length should
be an underscore.
Go ahead and say drop N A.
And after that we should be able to call unique if we don't drop any sometimes that returns an error.
So here are the actual unique titles and I'm going to just go ahead and sort them and now I have the
sorted titles.
And this actually looks almost in order except that excellently sorted one year right before this 10
plus years.
So what I can do is simply copy this which is what I was doing down here.
Paste it into the cell and we'll go ahead and say employ length order is equal to this list and then
I'll simply justice by grabbing this guy sticking it down here.
Let's go ahead and make sure that formatting is correct and then we'll grab this guy and stick it there
and then fix the commas OK.
So after running that we now have this nice ordering.
Again this is technically optional but it'll be nice for our account plot that we create right here
to have this actually in order.
And now I can do this by simply saying as an S count plot where x is the employment length my data is
equal to my current data frame and my order is equal to that employment length order.
So if you run that you get to see this right here.
We'll go ahead and stretch it out so we don't get that overlapping by saying Pulte figure fig size is
equal to go in and say twelve by four and we get this nice plot here.
So it looks like quite the majority of people have been working in their employment for 10 plus years
which makes sense if you're taking a loan you're very likely to have a job.
Otherwise how are you going to pay it back.
So most people have been working for more than a year and it looks like we messed up the order here
of one year versus less than one year.
So let's go ahead and take this guy and put it right there where it belongs.
And then that should fix the ordering for us.
There we go.
So now we see the less than one year one year two year etc..
OK so something I may also want to do is just view how useful a feature this is based off what we're
trying to predict.
Recall that we're trying to predict whether or not someone's actually going to pay back their loan.
So what is their loan status.
We run that.
And really what I'm interested in here is the relationship between fully paid off versus charged off
per employment length.
If there's an extreme difference in one of these categories of fully paid off versus charged off for
example maybe if you work less than one year everyone there charged that their loan didn't pay it back
then it's a fairly important feature.
If the ratio of this blue bar to this orange bar is essentially the same across all these employment
length categories then this isn't a very informative feature.
So what I want to do is I really want to figure out the ratio between the fully paid off versus charge
off people per category of employment link and that's what this later task we just completed this one
down here.
This task we're here.
That's what it's essentially describing.
So that does really inform us.
Well we really want to know is the percentage of charge offs per employment length category.
OK.
So how can we actually do this.
This is a bit of a challenge task but if you just think of this logically step by step especially when
you're using pandas it should be pretty straightforward.
So what I want to do is I essentially want to build out a series that looks something like this the
percent of people that don't pay back their loan per employment category.
So what I'm going to do is I'll say go ahead and grab the subset of the data frame where my loan status
is equal to charged off.
So these are the people that did not pay back their loans and I'm going to copy paste this down here
because we'll do the same thing for people that did fully pay off their loan.
So I have right now one data frame where people didn't pay back their loan charged off and the one where
they fully paid it.
And what I'm going to do is I'm interested in grouping it by this employment length category.
So I will say group by
employment underscore length and I'll do that for both cases and next what I want to do is actually
want to grab the counts for each of them.
Want to figure out how many people are actually in this blue bar and how many people are in this orange
bar.
So this is I am just trying to the math behind these bars.
So they charged off people.
Group them by employment length.
Go ahead and do the count there.
That essentially now is this orange count column.
And to get the blue count column we'll just do that on the fully paid statuses.
And in this case I'm really only interested in the lone status column for each of these.
So instead of just running this and getting the amounts it's gonna be the same for all these was going
to pass in a column of lone status and get those numbers.
So here I can see the lone status for the charged off per employment category.
And then if I do this on this guy I'll get the same thing.
But for people that fully paid back their loans and I'm going to assign these by saying employment or
ENP underscore I'll go ahead and say see 0 4 charge off.
So that's one series and then we'll say ENP underscore FP for fully paid and then all image sit in is
the ratio between them.
So that would be the employee length for people that charged off divided by the fully paid.
So we can run these and now I can see the percent of people that charged off versus the fully paid.
Keep in mind this is a direct ratio.
If I actually wanted the percent I could say ENP C O plus SMP FP run that and then this is the actual
percent per category instead of the direct ratio.
And we can see here that across the extremes it looks to be extremely similar.
So I can see zero point one nine zero point one eight.
Mostly is was a point nine versus the max of zero point two.
So it looks like this particular feature of employment length doesn't actually have some extreme differences
on the charge off rates.
So it looks like regardless of what actual employment length you have if you were to pick someone about
20 percent of them somewhere between nineteen percent or nineteen point nine nine and 20 percent are
going to have not paid back their loans.
And we can just exemplify this further by if we say employment underscore at length I can actually make
a bar plot for this by saying plot kind is equal to bar run that I can see the percentages or the ratios
essentially the same information.
Really what I'm looking for here is the fact that since all these bars are almost the same height there
really isn't that much information or differentiation between the employment length columns which is
kind of surprising but we can see here the main difference is that people who work for 10 years are
have a slightly smaller charge off rate than people who worked less like one year or less than a year.
But the difference is not extreme enough to really validate keeping this feature.
So since they're so extremely similar across all employments well we'll go ahead and do it just drop
that column.
We'll say the f is equal to DFT drop employment length access equal to one.
So run that and next revisit the data frame to see what feature columns still have missing data.
So say the f is no that some go ahead and run that you'll get back this series and it looks like we
still have the title this Revel you till this mortgage accounts and the public record bankruptcies so
we'll go ahead and continue dealing with these remaining missing features and the continuation of this
lecture.
I'll see you there.